---
published: false
---
In [last chapter](https://jp-wang.github.io/mvp-01/), we talked a little bit about the basic concepts of MVP and how to implement it. And also there is a simple framework provided at the end of article for your convinient.

Coincidentally, one of the Android projects in my company is looking for a great solution to solve their problems:
* Currently, their business logic is so deeply coupling with UI. They are using fragment to display UI, but now most of the fragment has more than 2000+ lines code due to the business logic messed up here
* They don't have consistent way to persist the data to survive from the storm android system recycled resources
* No standard rules for programmers to follow up when dealing with UI related staffs

After I heard their pain, the MVP pattern was the first one I want to share with them and encourge them to use. So here is the topic I am trying to record when I'm commencing to bring the MVP pattern into it.

The implementation we provided in last chapter is good, but very basic and not enough to handle the situations they have now. To solve it, I have below things to setup:

1. Create base classes for each role of MVP
2. Provide a common standard way to persist the data(maybe we could use saveInstanceState that's provided by Android)
3. Bind MVP with the real UI implementation.

### MVP Enhancement

**M - Model**

Android provids a good way to persistent model when the storm is coming which we called `onSaveInstanceState(Bundle)`. So we can use this way to help persistent the model data, but the limitation is Model object must be `Parcelable` or `Serializable`. However, you can also define your own persistent way as long as you defined your action when the `onSaveInstanceState(Bundle)` is triggered.

To be more structive, let's define a interface for persistent actions.

{% gist jp-wang/4b56128a1389c74a86c227508c9d1cf6 IModelSerializer.java %}

Following a default implementation which supports both `Parcelable` and `Serializable` as mentioned.

{% gist jp-wang/602b1834dd63db76dc7a2801cd52cbab DefaultModelSerializer.java %}

You also also use your own customized way.

{% gist jp-wang/3680de8f949a7f28944b271a07143af2 MyModelSerializer.java %}

**MVPDelegate**

In last chapter, we defined a MVPDelegate to help bind the lifecycle for Model-View-Presenter(which you can also use modern way `Dagger` to make it). So we can reuse it to bind the `onSaveInstanceState(Bundle)` lifecycle.

{% gist jp-wang/b489ec2fe17c670717a0c146d43c1069 MVPDelegate.java %}

**V - View**

{% gist jp-wang/27869f991c555b4f878a51fb89265f6b IView.java %}

Bascially, we are using `Activity` or `Fragment` to display our UI in Android. So let's define some base classes to help us easilly access the M and P.

In `BaseActivity`, there is instance of MVPDelegate to bind the lifecycles for each other, and also provides the ability to customize your own `ModelSerializer`.

{% gist jp-wang/5182590f2e30f272630cc3921893d062 BaseActivity.java %}

`BaseFragment` is simliar

{% gist jp-wang/be8f1c079b34299dcf75fdb46543cc8e BaseFragment.java %}


### Usage

Okay, now you get everything ready for your MVP framework for Android. It's time to use it in your real project! 

Assume there is project that needs to calculate the PI value(Get user's input as term). Lets see how we make it.

Firstly, we need to create the contracts for our goal. One is the base view we want to represent: `showToastMessage(String)`, and another one is the behavior of related presenter: `calculatePI(long)`.

{% gist jp-wang/7fc4d9b11f2c879b8275f2ec1be0ab20 MainContract.java %}

Secondly, Create a real UI implementation that we are using `Activity` to display in this case. Note: In this case, there is no data we have to persistent, so we use `Void` to replace the `Model`.

{% gist jp-wang/c08d9cef69da245ee84d82d679787878 MainActivity.java %}

Thirdly, it's the presenter which has been decoupled perfectly from the UI detail.

{% gist jp-wang/513c0b62a4d7489d2756f77f5d0a6132 MainPresenter.java %}

### Conclution

**MVP** is just a concept which is not an architecture pattern, but really help if you want to seprate the presentation layer from the logic which means decouple your business logic from the real UI itself!
